[Music]
you're standing in a jungle in Costa
Rica more life is found in jungles than
any other habitat on earth listen and
you can hear it but it's very difficult
to see anything right now there are
three jungle creatures very close to you
take a look around and see if you can
find them any luck if you haven't
spotted it already resting along the
tree there is a boa constrictor it's the
largest snake around here and a
formidable hunter it belongs to a family
of snakes that hunt in an unusual way
it doesn't have a venomous bite its
weapon is its powerful body it wraps
around its prey entirely tightening its
coils every time the unfortunate
creature breathes out and preventing it
from breathing in again it's gruesome
but effective
[Music]
now if you look up asset the power
winding its way up the tree is another
snake that's much harder to spot the
vine snake fine snakes are brilliantly
camouflaged all over the world you can
find different species of fine snake
that user camouflage to sneak up on
lizards and frogs look at the eyes of
this one the key hole shaped pupils can
look forwards along grooves in the
snakes knows only vine snakes look like
this it's thought to help them spot
they're equally crafty prey now look to
the right of the vine snake just towards
the top of that vertical branch it's
perhaps their most difficult to find of
our hidden species a brown basilisk
right now it's tricky to spot but this
lizard faces a dilemma it must warm its
body by basking but that will inevitably
make it easy to see the trick is
choosing a good spot to bask
[Music]
but a conspicuous perch over a river
like this seems to be making yourself
unnecessarily prominent this basilisks
greatest threat comes from the sky dark
shapes overhead make it nervous a
hunting bird might expect it to flee to
the trees in fact it does the opposite
this skitter across the surface of the
water earns it precious seconds and the
nickname Jesus Christ lizard
it drives its feet down so hard and so
fast that it never sinks deeper than a
few inches a human would need to run at
65 miles an hour to do this
[Music]
these are just a few of the many
thousands of species living in this
rainforest who knows how many more are
hidden close by watching you right now
[Music]
you